README.md, before:

# JODO

Jodo provides a single CLI interface to interact with multiple cloud providers.

## Installation

Jodo can be `pip install`ed into any environment, but [pipx](https://pypa.github.io/pipx/) is recommended:

```bash
pipx install jodo
```

Also currently requires https://github.com/canonical/pycloudlib/pull/324

## Configuration

Pycloudlib must be configured as described in the [pycloudlib documentation](https://pycloudlib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html).

## Usage

### Launch an LXD container

```bash
jodo launch --cloud lxd_container --image jammy my-instance
```

### List all instances

```bash
$ jodo list
NAME         CLOUD          IP              CREATED
my-instance  lxd_container  10.197.203.205  2023-10-18 01:33:16
```

### SSH into instance

```bash
jodo ssh my-instance
Warning: Permanently added '10.197.203.205' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
Welcome to Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 6.5.0-7-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

  System information as of Wed Oct 18 01:33:15 UTC 2023

  System load:           0.86572265625
  Usage of /home:        unknown
  Memory usage:          0%
  Swap usage:            0%
  Temperature:           47.0 C
  Processes:             27
  Users logged in:       0
  IPv4 address for eth0: 10.197.203.205
  IPv6 address for eth0: fd42:eaab:10a1:ad48:216:3eff:fef2:9ded


Expanded Security Maintenance for Applications is not enabled.

0 updates can be applied immediately.

Enable ESM Apps to receive additional future security updates.
See https://ubuntu.com/esm or run: sudo pro status


The list of available updates is more than a week old.
To check for new updates run: sudo apt update

To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@my-instance-0:~$
```

### Execute a command on instance

```bash
$ jodo exec my-instance "cat /etc/lsb-release"
return code: 0
stdout:
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=22.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=jammy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS"
$
```

### Push a file

```bash
$ echo 'hi' > /tmp/hi
$ jodo push my-instance /tmp/hi /var/tmp/hi
$ jodo exec my-instance "cat /var/tmp/hi"
return code: 0
stdout:
hi
$
```

### Pull a file

```bash
$ jodo pull my-instance /etc/lsb-release /tmp/remote-lsb
$ cat /tmp/remote-lsb
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=22.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=jammy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS"
$
```

### Delete instance

```bash
jodo delete my-instance
```

## Status

This is a project I quickly hacked together in my free time and should be considered minimum viable functionality. It currently has no testing, no logging, no exception handling, no documentation (other than this README), and no guarantees about state or schema compatibility. If you use it you will see glaringly obvious bugs. Feel free to submit an issue or PR.

Commit message:

New features and tests
* Add some basic integration correctness tests
* Move db initialization into a function
* Ensure multiple instances can't have same name
* Add port to db / instance info / ssh command
   (delete any pre-existing ~/.config/jodo/jodo.db)
* Add Qemu cloud
* Make delete actually work and remove -a flag (for now)
* Separate main functions to be more unit testable
   (even though there's no unit tests yet)

README.md, after:

# JODO

Jodo provides a single CLI interface to interact with multiple cloud providers.

## Installation

Jodo can be `pip install`ed into any environment, but [pipx](https://pypa.github.io/pipx/) is recommended:

```bash
pipx install jodo
```

## Configuration

Pycloudlib must be configured as described in the [pycloudlib documentation](https://pycloudlib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html).

## Usage

### Launch an LXD container

```bash
jodo launch --cloud lxd_container --image jammy my-instance
```

### List all instances

```bash
$ jodo list
NAME         CLOUD          IP              CREATED
my-instance  lxd_container  10.197.203.205  2023-10-18 01:33:16
```

### SSH into instance

```bash
jodo ssh my-instance
Warning: Permanently added '10.197.203.205' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
Welcome to Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 6.5.0-7-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

  System information as of Wed Oct 18 01:33:15 UTC 2023

  System load:           0.86572265625
  Usage of /home:        unknown
  Memory usage:          0%
  Swap usage:            0%
  Temperature:           47.0 C
  Processes:             27
  Users logged in:       0
  IPv4 address for eth0: 10.197.203.205
  IPv6 address for eth0: fd42:eaab:10a1:ad48:216:3eff:fef2:9ded


Expanded Security Maintenance for Applications is not enabled.

0 updates can be applied immediately.

Enable ESM Apps to receive additional future security updates.
See https://ubuntu.com/esm or run: sudo pro status


The list of available updates is more than a week old.
To check for new updates run: sudo apt update

To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@my-instance-0:~$
```

### Execute a command on instance

```bash
$ jodo exec my-instance "cat /etc/lsb-release"
return code: 0
stdout:
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=22.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=jammy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS"
$
```

### Push a file

```bash
$ echo 'hi' > /tmp/hi
$ jodo push my-instance /tmp/hi /var/tmp/hi
$ jodo exec my-instance "cat /var/tmp/hi"
return code: 0
stdout:
hi
$
```

### Pull a file

```bash
$ jodo pull my-instance /etc/lsb-release /tmp/remote-lsb
$ cat /tmp/remote-lsb
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=22.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=jammy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS"
$
```

### Delete instance

```bash
jodo delete my-instance
```

## Status

There is currently no logging, minimal exception handling, no documentation (other than this README), and no guarantees about state or schema compatibility. New versions may require you to delete `~/.config/jodo/jodo.db` in order to work correctly. You may see glaringly obvious bugs. Feel free to submit an issue or PR.
